the role of a case officer is very very
simple it's to recruit spies to steal
Secrets period now I have a personality
where I can manipulate people like that
I can turn it on and
off when you create that relationship
with an asset is it real or is it fake
ah we recruited this guy and he's
actually a double agent for one of our
greatest enemies in the world then I get
a call from my buddy and he says they
just gave him orders to kill you in the
next meeting so he triggers a meeting he
said I'm here I said come up to the
eighth floor it was the top floor and I
said let's go up to the roof he goes I
don't think I want to go up to the roof
and I said why you think I'm going to
throw you off the roof
[Music]
all right John kiraku welcome man thanks
for having me yeah it's a it's a real
pleasure it's good to see you thanks
good to see you too it's been a while
yeah um it has and and I'm glad you're
here so so John for people that may not
fre familiar with your story you spent
15 years in the CIA as an analyst as a
case officer or a spy and later as uh
cia's chief of counterterrorism in
Pakistan where you led the raid that
captured the infamous
abua and later after your CIA career you
blew the whistle on the US's enhanced
interrogation program or the torture
program and you went to prison for just
short of two years and connection with
that um so man I was telling you
downstairs you uh like I said you have a
fascinating story but I feel like you've
lived several lives in one and I can't
wait to dig into it so thanks for coming
up I'm very happy to do it yeah um and
here I got you uh just as a little thank
you for making the drivez thank you
couple things you want that's so kind of
you thanks you didn't have to do that oh
wow hey all right it's a level one
disguise right there right thank you
there's a couple other things in there
too oh thank you man I I oh yeah wow
don't don't tell me you went all the way
to a Storia Queens
to you get this stuff there's a there's
a Greek store in around the corner in uh
kennworth in Jersey minutes I asked the
Greek body I said hey I got a friend
coming over um what what are a couple
things and there's one more thing in
there that you'll get a laugh out
of oh
awesome oh I didn't see
it oh yeah oh yeah we should talk about
that yeah thank you much absolutely man
um for people listening it's a mug that
says go home and get your shine
box so I know you love Good Fellas if
there's one thing I learned and I I
won't I promise I won't get ahead of us
um it's whenever the Italians say you
believe this guy you're in
trouble that's going to be a
problem yeah you don't ever want them to
say that about you you believe this
guy yeah yeah man thank you so much for
this Absolutely I'll wear this every day
yeah so again I appreciate you making
the drive up and uh yeah I've been
excited for this for a while so thank
you um yeah we we'll keep it in we'll
keep it in chronological order um so
let's start at at your childhood where'd
you grow up right I grew up in a little
town in Western Pennsylvania called
Newcastle Pennsylvania um wonderful
place to grow up it's it's about an hour
north of Pittsburgh in Amish Country and
um it's not such a nice place anymore
you know when DEA and ATF open a field
office in your hometown of 18,000 people
you got a problem
uh but it was it was great when I was
growing up we had 50,000 people back
then you know there was stuff to do
places to go but it was just a a a nice
peaceful
fun you know Town small town America my
parents were Public School teachers my
dad was a was an elementary school
principal I have a brother and a sister
and um had kind of an idic childhood I'm
the oldest of three yeah what kind of
stuff did you like to do as a kid
um I was nuts for
baseball almost as nuts for football but
I liked I liked exploring a lot um there
were some really big cemeteries near our
house and I used to go down there and
hunt for salamanders under rocks and
stuff and
um I got to the point where I'd go down
there and it wasn't really the
salamanders anymore that I was looking
for it was just you know interesting
people you look for names that you
recognize you know the the founders of
the town and the the name on the steel
mill and the name on the coal mine and
the name on the hospital and you know
stuff like that and then every once in a
while we we'd get to go to the big city
Pittsburgh my dad would take us to a a
pirates game or a Steelers game and uh
that was always a big deal because it
really was a big city they had a zoo
they had a
museum and I kind of got
the travel bug one of the things that
was the most important to me though
growing up was um this makes me sound
like such a nerd but was shortwave radio
when I was 9 years old my dad took me to
an auction and he bid 50 cents on a box
of junk I still remember it and so he
got the box for 50 cents and it had a
broken shortwave radio in it and so he
was able to fix it and he gave it to me
and I turned it on one night you know
that you can get the signals once the
sun goes down and I got the BBC in
London I got Radio Moscow and Russia or
the Soviet Union back then and just
stuff from all over the world Cuba and
Ecuador and China and all different
kinds of places and I I was I was hooked
hooked it got to the point where well
that was when I was nine by the time I
was
14 my dad had constructed a 40 foot
Tower um with a shortwave antenna on the
top of it and ran the wires into my
bedroom I had saved and saved and saved
my paper root money and I bought a I
bought a $1,000 shortwave base unit I
mean $1,000 in
1978 it was a lot of money it was like
buying a car you know and
um yeah I I was able to listen to I'd
get up at 3 4:00 in the morning
just hoping that the atmosphere
conditions were perfect that I could get
that station in Mongolia that I hadn't I
actually was able to with radio
Mongolia and uh yeah I was I was hooked
but it it gave me the travel bug and
so I I knew early on I was going to
leave Newcastle Pennsylvania I wasn't
going to go back I wanted to live
overseas I wanted to go to school in
Washington because that's where the
action was and um and I was able to do
all of it yeah mhm so you went to GW
went to GW it was the only school I
applied to it was uh two blocks from the
White House and um it was one of only
three schools in the country at the time
that had a degree program in Middle
Eastern studies when I was 15 the
Iranian uh the Iranian government
collapsed and Iranian students took uh
American hostages American diplomats
hostage and so I was fascinated by this
thing we're on the brink of war with
Iran and I was coming up to draft AG so
they they reinstituted draft
registration that not the draft but you
had to register I I think you still do
um so I was interested and so when I
went to GW uh I majored in Middle
Eastern studies and um you know studied
Islam which was my it was the focus of
my major Islamic theology uh studied
Arabic uh studied oil oil and oil
economics and then
uh yeah the rest kind of the path
presented itself I guess is the way the
best way I could say it yeah it did and
so how did uh how did you end up get
into the
agency well I when I finished
undergrad I just kind of felt in my
heart like I wasn't adult enough to
start my life does that make sense yeah
yeah I I felt like I needed to go to
grad school because I just wasn't ready
to go out there and so I stayed at GW
and I was working on a master's degree
in legislative affairs with a focus on
foreign policy
analysis and so I was taken this class
called the psychology of leadership with
an eminent psychiatrist by the name of
uh Dr Gerald post post was very unusual
in that he called himself a political
psychiatrist he had a PhD in political
science a PhD in Psychology and an
MD and so he um he was teaching this
class and the reason why this class was
so interesting the psychology of
leadership is that it tried to look
at
how governments
manipulate other world
leaders into doing what they want them
to do for example
uh you of course you've heard of the
yelta conference near the end of World
War II so Dr post asked us and I
remember this all these years later I
mean this was 3 what 38 years ago 36
years ago whatever it is um Dr post
asked us why was that Conference held in
yelta of all
places nobody had any idea and he said
the answer was actually quite simple
because Stalin knew that Roosevelt was
sick right his spies in the United
States had said something's wrong with
Roosevelt he's ill he looks like he's
dying so rather than have the conference
in Cuba or Iran which is where it was
supposed to be originally it was
supposed to be in
Teran it was in Yalta because Stalin
insisted that it be held there and and
Roosevelt had to fly all the way around
the war so he had to go from Washington
to Morocco Morocco to subsaharan Africa
to Teran and then North to yelta it took
Days by the time he got to Russia he was
exhausted and sick and all he wanted to
do was go to sleep but Stalin insisted
that they begin the talks
immediately so just to be able to get to
bed Roosevelt gave up
Poland and so for the next 45 years
Poland was Communist it didn't have to
be but Roosevelt was exhausted and he
needed to sleep he said that is how you
manipulate somebody's
psychology
so toward the end of this class he uh
the professor gave us an assignment
where we had to Shadow our bosses uh for
a week and then write a psychological
analysis of our bosses I was working for
a guy at the United Food and Commercial
Workers Union at their International
headquarters in Washington and I was a
little bit afraid of this guy he was a
mean tough old school Union organizer
right he had had his back broken by
scabs and some some strike in the 70s in
in New York he was working for the
international ladies garment workers
union and um he was just a mean
mean old union guy so I'm shadowing him
following him watching what he does I
mean I knew it all of it anyway because
I worked for him normally but this week
we were joined at the hip and halfway
through the week on Wednesday we got
into an argument and I called him a
racist which he
was he was so
angry his face got all red he clenches
his teeth and he balls up his fists
right and I thought to myself ah I went
too far and I put up my hands to protect
myself because I thought here it comes
and he's going to knock me out this is
how strong and tough he was I put up my
hands and he goes my penis is bigger
than
yours and I said
what and he goes my penis is bigger than
yours and I said you know what you're
nuts and I quit and I walked out and I
quit
that is not what I was expecting to
hear so I went back to my dorm I was an
RA in the dorm which is one of the ways
I was paying my way through college and
um and I wrote my psychological
evaluation and I said he's a sociopath
with Psychopathic and possibly violent
tendencies and I did all these examples
culminating in what had just
happened so I passed in the paper
a week later I get it back I have an A
he puts an A in the top and then in the
margin underneath the a he wrote please
see me after class this is Dr post Dr
post please see me after class so after
class I went up to him and I said Dr
post you wanted to see me he said yeah
come down to my office the office was in
the same building the class was in the
What's called the Gilman library but
they have they have classrooms at the
top floor and then little teeny tiny
professor's office you know how
professor's offices are so on the lower
floors they have the professor's offices
I I go down to the to his office and he
closes the door and he says listen I'm
not really a professor here I'm a CIA
officer undercover as a professor here
and I'm here to find people who would
fit into the cia's culture I think you
would fit into the cia's culture would
you like to join the
CIA the truth
is I had played with the idea a couple
of times over the years but never I had
never given it serious thought but I was
getting married in six weeks and I
didn't have any job I didn't have any
hope for a
job and I didn't know what I was going
to do so I said sure why
not so he picked up the phone
and he called a number and I'll tell you
I remember being very impressed as he
was doing this because those are the
days where people had rolodexes do you
know what a Rolodex is yeah so used I'm
not that young
unfortunately you used to write
somebody's name and phone number on a
little card and the card fit into a
wheel and you would roll the wheel and
look up the number and as he was going
through the roll I saw one of the cards
said Oliver North home and I was like
Oliver North Oliver North had just been
acquitted of a whole bunch of crimes for
engineering the arms for hostages uh
saale to Iran this was a major national
Scandal and I was like wow he knows
Oliver North turned out he worked very
very closely with ol Oliver North so
anyway he calls this
number and and he says Bob it's Jerry
I've got a good one for you you have a
few minutes and then he hung up the
phone and he
says go to this
address and ask for Bob and he hands me
the address well the address is one
subway stop away in Rosland
Virginia so I get on the subway I go
there I'm there in 15
minutes and um I go to the address and
it's this you know normal office tower
that roslin's famous for and uh I go up
to whatever it was I think it was the
sixth
floor and
um and there's no like there's no name
on the door nothing it's just a just a
door so I knock on the door and this guy
opens the door just to crack and he says
are you here for Bob and I said yes so
he lets me in and it's a little like a
little 6x6 foot Atrium but the second
door has a big spin dial lock on it like
a bank right so he does the
dial and uh there's a woman on the other
side and she said are you here for Bob
and I said I am so she lets me in and
I'm sitting there and then Bob comes out
I still to this day I have no idea if
his name really was Bob Bob yeah and
that's the only name I ever knew him by
but he was like a
6'6
320b loud smiling you know good old
guy John I'm Bob how the hell are you
and he shakes my hand come on
in so he says Jerry says you're a good
guy I said well I appreciate it I said
he's an amazing Professor he's a great
guy and he says John let me ask you
something Have you ever betrayed a
friendship and I was like oh
uh I I don't think so I I hope not he
said okay that's okay listen I want you
to do a couple of things for me he says
uh I want you to go to this address
there are going to be some people there
waiting for you and I said like right
now and he says yeah right now I said
okay' he said then I want you to call me
or better yet I'll call you I said okay
so I go home I get in my car I drive out
to this equally nondescript building in
Vienna Virginia one-story flat building
that you would drive past a thousand
times you would never notice it so I
ring the bell this guy lets me in you
John and I said yeah come on in so I go
there and there's a table with three
chairs on one side and one chair on the
other and in the three chairs are three
people who never identified themselves
by name but they identified themselves
as being a psychologist a psychiatrist
and an
anthropologist so I sit
down no hello how are you nothing I just
sit down I said hello they all just kind
of looked at me and then one of them
says describe your relationship with
your mother
mother and I go oh I said yeah uh my mom
and I are close she's a school teacher
and uh you know she's terrific mother
and very nurturing and you know took
good care of all three of us and you
know what do you
say and then they're like okay describe
your relationship with your father so I
did I said my dad's a good guy he's kind
of introverted my mom was the extrovert
of the family was your father the
disciplinarian and I said no actually my
dad's a big strong guy and I think he
was probably always afraid he would hurt
us or something so no my dad my dad's a
very gentle uh
Soul um then they asked me that question
again have you ever betrayed a
friendship and I said I don't think
so let me think about it for a second
and then the Anthropologist says no no
that's the answer we were looking for
and then one of them says you're going
to need to go into the next room and you
need to give us some piss some blood and
some hair I go okay so I went and gave
him some piss some blood and some hair
and then I
left I went home I called my fiance she
goes how did it go I said I have no idea
they asked me these three weird
questions it took 15 minutes then they
took my pee my blood and and pulled some
of my hairs
out I get a call like four weeks later
from Bob he goes you blew the doors off
that
meeting I go Bob I it was like from
Bizarro world I I didn't understand what
they wanted they wouldn't explain
anything he said you aced it he said
um now we want you to
uh to go to headquarters
you're going to have a meeting at
headquarters so I said okay so I go to
CIA
headquarters and I went to like four
different offices they asked me a
thousand million
questions and uh and I leave by then
I've gotten married I go home she's like
how did it go I said I don't have any
idea there's no feedback there's no
reaction from anybody body there's no
response nothing then Bob calls he goes
you aced it man you aced it I go Bob
there's no feedback he goes no you don't
need any feedback he said they want you
in your raw
State I said okay so what next he goes
look they're going to give you a
polygraph exam and if you pass it you're
in I was a nervous fraking wreck about
the polygraph I had never taken a
polygraph
exam so they scheduled the
polygraph and I was very fortunate in
that first polygraph because I had a
very
respectful uh young African-American
woman and so um she hooks me up and it
it's it's funny they they put a cuff on
you like they're taking your blood
pressure and then they put these
electrodes on your fingertips then they
put a a belt around you to measure your
breathing then they put electrodes on
your ankle and there was one other that
they did like was it on my temple I
don't remember anymore so you have to
sit there like this and you can't move
you just have to be as still as possible
and you have to answer all the questions
yes or no cuz the thing doesn't detect
anything else it just detects bodily
reactions increases in your heart rate
or respiration sweating it's very very
sensitive to
sweating so I called Dr Post in advance
and I I said listen any advice you could
give me I would really really appreciate
this because I've gotten so far in the
process I really want this to happen so
he
said I can't really give you any
Insider tips he said but I'll tell you
something as a psycholog or as a Psy
psychiatrist he said you're going to be
in a room that has nothing on the walls
it's just a white room with a window and
of course they're going to be looking at
you from the other side of the window as
the polygrapher is doing the exam he
said there's bound to be a speck on the
wall he said focus on the speck think
about nothing but the speck he said now
they're going to ask you some very
disturb in questions questions that may
make you upset he said just answer the
question yes or no don't think about it
if they say have you ever killed anybody
say no don't think about what it might
feel like to kill
somebody just say no and focus on the
spec I sit down in the thing she wires
me up and it takes a good 20 minutes to
wire you up to this polygraph machine
and I sit there and as soon as I I sit
and I'm wired up I look and sure enough
there's a speck like straight ahead of
me so I'm looking at the
spec and they start asking you questions
have you ever committed a violent felony
no have you ever um used a weapon in a
crime
no uh and then they get you know into
more mundane things uh are you
financially responsible
yes um have you ever shoplifted anything
no have you ever taken anything from the
office worth more than $20 no um have
you ever had sex with a man and she just
threw that one at me like a grenade so I
go no which was true um but I could feel
my heart going like this like she's
trying to trip me
up and she says let's take a little
break you're sweating
profusely I can tell that you're nervous
I said yeah you kind of threw that
question out there like a grenade into
the middle of the room she said it's a
standard question I said I understand so
I just kind of sat there for a couple of
minutes and got my heart rate to slow
down and um then she said I'll be honest
with you you are reacting to one of the
questions which was I was not
reacting to one of the questions but
this is I came to learn later in my
career that this is a a turd that they
throw at you to see how you respond to
it I said okay and so she says I'm gonna
um I'm going to consult with my boss and
then I'm going to come in and we're
going to go back over the question that
you're reacting to I was like great so
she
leaves and you know that they're right
there on the other side of the window or
of the mirror you can't see them but you
know that they're there so she comes
back in and she says you're reacting to
the question about credit card usage I
go
what and she says yes um are you
irresponsible with your credit cards I
go no I I don't have any balance on my
credit cards I pay my credit cards in
full every
month I'm still laughing about it all
these years later this is 20 this is 25
years ago no it's 35 years ago 35 years
ago so
she asked me again the credit card
question and I I answered
no and then she's like okay we're done
so she starts unhooking me and I said
how did I do and she said we're not
allowed to say and she winked at me and
I was like oh my God I can't believe I
passed so I went home and I said to my
wife I think I
passed and then Bob called and he says
they're fighting over you at
headquarters Love Bob Bob was great it
turned out that Bob was the director of
HR for the entire CIA I would never ever
have even met someone so important as
this guy had it not been for Jerry post
Jerry post God bless him who just died
of covid a year ago um but man Jerry was
was good to me really good to me
even later in life he was even better to
me yeah so
um so I got multiple offers uh from the
agency and
um I decided not to go into operations
right away because I was a Middle East
specialist and so uh sorry to cut you
off before we get into that um I want I
want to stay on the interview process
just funny they uh they walk away and
you're probably sitting there thinking
please don't be the question about
having sex with a man that that's
exactly what I thought cuz you know I
didn't mind getting cut from the process
but then my my buddy's going to say hey
so what what was it that screwed you up
and I'd be like ah they asked me if I
had sex with a man and I said no and
they didn't believe me and so that I was
worried right so when she said it was
the credit cards I was like oh my God
okay so um what were some of the other
questions that you mentioned word
disturbing that stands out and why what
is the point of them asking those sorts
of questions like what are they trying
to select for that's a good question so
I didn't know for a long time what the
purpose of any of these questions was 10
years later I happened
to uh be transferred
overseas and one of my
colleagues uh was a former polygrapher
and I asked him that question what was
the point of all these weird
questions and he said I'm I can best
answer your question with some anecdotes
he says he goes look I've been a
polygrapher for 25 years and over the
course of 25 years I've had people
applicants
mostly admit to every crime you can
imagine including
murder because they think ah this is the
CIA I'm going to do some wet work
they're going to be impressed that I
killed this guy in Syracuse and I buried
his body under the train tracks right
they're not impressed they're calling
the FBI before you can leave the
building and then the FBI is going to
come and take you away which is exactly
what
happened so he said it's the the purpose
is to Rattle you he said one of the
things that we do and he said you may
remember this we we always start off by
saying we're not looking for Perfect
People we're looking for honest people
so just answer the questions truthfully
and if there's something that you did in
your past admit to it and we'll get
through it that's they're not
going to help you get through it they're
going to call the FBI and they're going
to report your confession that you just
made to a Federal
Officer so if you've done something if
you've committed a felony don't apply
for a job at the CIA and then confess it
to the
polygrapher that's not going to work for
you so he told me that you know there
was a guy who admitted to a murder in
Syracuse and they got him walking out of
the polygrapher uh polygrapher office uh
he said there was another guy there was
a guy that was a a janitor of all things
because you know even the janitors need
to have security clearances you're in
the CIA we have classified stuff hanging
up on the walls everywhere you turn your
head and so uh you get a pre-employment
polygraph you get one after three years
that's your probationary period and then
every five years for the rest of your
career so he said this was a normal
fiveyear they call it a reinvestigation
poly now the in the pre-public pre um uh
hire sorry and in the threeyear they ask
you what are called lifestyle questions
that is are you gay are you buy are you
leather are you crazy are you a pervert
you know do you like to beat prostitutes
they ask you all that stuff after the
three years they don't ask you any of
that stuff anymore because by then they
figure you know we know each other well
enough that you're going to be okay
um so he he
said because they don't ask those
lifestyle questions anymore he would
always throw an extra question in at the
end open-ended is there anything that we
haven't talked about that you think is
important 99% of the people say no some
people say what do you
mean he said well to this janitor things
like murder rape robbery beastiality and
the guy says what was that last
one and my friend says I knew I had
him he goes
beastiality the guy says what's that
mean
and my friend
says it's actually very common he
says everybody does it it's having sex
with an
animal and the guy
says I may have done that couple three
times and my friend says okay well like
I said everybody does it but just so we
can get past it for the purpose of the
polygraph um in what cases would you
have sex with with an animal the guy
says well sometimes when I have a fight
with my wife to get back at her I go to
the barn and I bugger the
horse because it's her horse he said he
gets up on a step stool and he gets the
horse and he's like okay and you've done
this more than once he said I may have
done it a couple three
times so he said needless to say they
escorted him out of headquarters and
took his badge and said don't ever come
back yes but I never had to deal with
anything like that I I used to in fact
for my
fiveyear I were I had been in like eight
years at that point and I mentioned to
one of my co-workers I said oh I got to
drive out to Vienna I have uh I got my
polygraph and so um his polygraph had
taken two days because he was stuck on
this question have you ever had
unauthorized contact with a foreign
intelligence service it's an important
one it's an important
one so my polygraph took 40 minutes
because I never did
anything and uh I come back and he had
gone to lunch when I was getting ready
to leave for the polygraph he came back
from lunch and I'm sitting at the desk
and he goes dude I thought you had a
polygraph you better get going I said no
no I did it I'm back he goes come on I
said said no I
didn't he said I was on for 2 days and
they made me cry he says I said I I
don't talk to libyans at cocktail
parties which was his problem I said I
I've I've never done anything I'm
clean and so that was it I never ever
had a problem with a
polygraph so um was Dr post a case
officer no Dr post was a legitimate
psychiatrist so he was at the CIA as a
psychiatrist and then in the 1970s he
said you know we can do so much more as
psychiatrists what he was doing there
was was to treat case officers who went
crazy well there aren't that many that
go crazy really and so he said what we
can
do is we can create this unit that does
longdistance psychiatric evaluations of
foreign leaders so when they come to the
United States we can say
oh president so and so is an
alcoholic so get him liquored up and
that's when you want to start the trade
talks right
or there was one foreign
leader an Allied leader who President
Clinton was very friendly with and we
knew that this foreign leader uh loved
to play chess and he loved loved Lov to
eat
sausage all kinds of
sausage so we all huddled together like
okay he's coming for an official visit
what do we do and one of Dr post people
said we stuff him full of sausage until
he can't eat any more sausage he can't
hold any
sausage and then Clinton invites him to
play chess the sausage is going to make
him
drowsy and when he gets drowsy he gets
chatty to keep himself
awake and then we'll give Clinton a list
of sensitive questions to
ask so we can learn some stuff that we
otherwise haven't learned so that's what
Jerry post did he created this group
called the political psychology
Division and their job was just to look
at foreign leaders and their mental
States now 99% of
those you're never going to meet you
know and it's actually in practice it's
actually unethical for a psychologist or
a psychiat psychiatrist to make uh a a
determination on someone's mental state
without an actual in-person
uh uh examination but you know this
isn't a perfect world yeah so
I'd call over there and say hey I need
500 words on Saddam Hussein or I need
500 words on D Xiao ping and then they
would do their psychiatric evaluation in
500 Words and I would include it in my
bigger piece and then it would go to the
president the vice president secretary
of state Secretary of Defense and the
National Security adviser that's what
Jerry did it's a lasting Legacy at the
CIA it's still there that's super
interesting and the reason I asked is
I'm thinking about
um like what
other I'm just thinking about in terms
of you know CIA employees being under
official cover doing jobs within the
United States how many of those people
are
there that I can't
say
um you know in the
1980s uh CIA director Bill Casey this
was during the Reagan Administration CIA
Bill Casey decided to create a domestic
um division called uh the National
Resources Division and NR division does
not do traditional spying it's illegal
for the CIA to spy on us
soil but Casey you know the the
notorious criminal that he was was
actually right on about National
Resources Division he said look we've
got we've got patriotic businessmen and
corporate leaders all over America who
are doing business in China and the
Soviet Union and Cuba at the time and
all these these countries that are
called denied areas denied to us where
we're not allowed to have a presence
there we're not allowed to conduct
Espionage there it's too risky it's too
dangerous he said let's just hire a
group of case officers to
interview Business Leaders
right we'll just go and say hi we're
from the CIA here's our business card we
know you're a patriotic American can we
ask you some questions about your recent
trip and uh they always say yes and so
that's that's what this domestic
division does there are offices All Over
America you'd never know they were there
um there's nothing clandestine that's
happening it's all on the up and up and
they produce an insane amount of
intelligence that's
fascinating um so yeah as you briefly
mentioned before so you finish the
interview and application process you
get accepted to the agency yep um your
first job is as an analyst yes um we'll
talk about Iraq later so we'll come back
to that but so let's talk about um
becoming a case officer um what is the
farm the farm uh used to be this top
secret facility that we have uh now
everybody knows what the farm is the
farm is the cia's uh clandestine
training facility it's
in it's
in Virginia it's in
Virginia and uh it's where almost all of
your operational training is going to
take place everything from
counterterrorist driving to all of your
weapons
qualifications to Airborne where they
they train you how to jump out of a
plane and how to use a parachute um then
they they do the the nuts and bolts um
how to recruit spies to steal Secrets
exercises you know there are other
facilities too uh things like
um bomb
training um specialized stuff out in the
desert out west but most of it 80% of it
is at the farm so you go they've got
they've got dorms I guess you could call
them dorms um and uh classrooms and
tracks and shooting ranges and anything
you need I mean the thing is
like thousands of Acres
so anything you need to do you can do
with the
farm what was your favorite thing that
you did
there you know everybody loved shooting
the
most uh I it it was the driving for
me it was the driving for me my God I
got so much out of that class I still
use it I still use what I learned all
these years later um we did things like
the the course was colloquially known as
crash and bang so you crash cars and you
shoot guns and you know and then you do
cool stuff like one one night we did
well we did we did night shooting a lot
but we we did like rocket launchers like
where else are you going to do rocket
launchers grenade launchers and blow
up and blow cars up and that was so
much fun but for me the driving was
better because they put you in these
scenarios where
I got to be careful I don't go into too
much detail but you got a blindfold on
okay you're in the driver's seat and
you're driving like a mile an hour with
a blindfold on and they're steering for
you and they say okay I'm going to take
the blindfold off and you have two
seconds to
react okay so they take the blindfold
off and just as they take the blindfold
off you notice in your peripheral vision
there's a guy with an AK-47 who's trying
to open your door and then there are two
guys in front of you and they're they
have their cars in a V but which way is
it is it a v like this or is it a v like
this so if it's a v like this you got to
gun it and crash right through if it's a
v like this you're just going to wedge
yourself and they're going to blow your
brains out so you have to put it in
reverse before this guy shoots you with
a paintball uh um and you got to go
reverse you know 50 60 70 miles an hour
they teach you how to hit the brakes
neutral spin around drive without ever
coming to a stop and you take off and
they they call it getting off the
X so you do this three times and you
know you it up one time you're dead
that's it you're dead
so I was good at that my response time
was very quick it was under a
second and and it's little stuff that
that people forget that get you killed
you forget to lock your door always
always always lock the door
always I mean even now the the risk of
being carjacked at a red light or stop
sign or something is is is real
that lock may buy you an extra second or
two seconds which is really all you need
to get off the dime so I was good at
that and then they marry the
two guns and
cars so you go through these very
elaborate complicated
exercises where they they have a device
on all the cars where they can kill the
engine remotely so you're just driving
down the track mining your own business
and your car dies and so
you you drive over you you you drift
over to the side now we're using all
live ammo here by the way um and so
really yeah you pull over and you hear a
gunshot now they haven't shot directly
at you they shot in the air so you hear
The Gunshot so you have to you have to
crouch down so that they can't get you
through the you have live ammo they
don't uh they can't get you through the
windshield and then you put it in park
you crawl across the the seat get out
the passenger side lay on the ground
you've got your
gun and you have to look to see where
the shooting's coming from well the the
shooting is coming from these robots
that they have they're they're automated
and they've got little Targets on them
black and white rings so the thing is
shooting at you it's shooting blanks and
you're on the ground and you have to you
know bang bang and then you hear a shot
over there bang bang but sometimes you
can't quite get it because the robots
turn to the side or the the targets turn
to the side so on your belly you have to
go to the back of the car and then get
it from that angle well there was one
there was one point that I just couldn't
get a clear shot what it was across the
way there was a van and the the sliding
door of the van had opened and the robot
was in the van and the robots firing at
me and I just can't get a clean shot so
I pop up and I shoot out my own Windows
they give you these beater Ford Tauruses
I shoot out my own windows and I go bang
bang and I get
it
so they they sound this air horn which
means you know weapons down so you
holster your
weapon and the guy the instructor comes
out he goes well you passed but damn it
Kaku you just cost me
$900 in broken
windshields I said I couldn't get a
clean shot I'm sorry we did this one
exercise it was at night we drew straws
to see who would go first and I went
first so all you know in this scenario
is you are in a flea bag Hotel in in El
Salvador good luck so it's just a a
table and a
chair
and and it it looks like a flea bag
Hotel I mean it's like a Hollywood set I
mean they they this is real life they
make it look like it really is going to
look in real life so you're sitting
there not really sure what to expect and
there's a knock on the door and you say
who is it
and then the door opens and it's these
two guys and one of them is holding a a
a vacuum cleaner and they're saying
housekeeping seor housekeeping and I go
I don't need housekeeping I don't need
housekeeping and then the guy the second
guy behind him pulls out a gun he goes
bang bang he shoots me with two paint
pellets I go I said I never saw
that
coming and one of the instruct
says if you're in a hole motel in a
hole country and two people just
walk into your room kill
them and he's like don't tell anybody
else what the exercise is so I go back
out to the van we're all sitting in the
van waiting our turn and I got these two
paint things here and one of them just
says
and I said yeah I can't talk about
it all eight of us failed fail all eight
of us
failed that was such an important lesson
I never ever forgot it and so
anytime I felt threatened or anytime I
felt you know what in this situation I'm
in right now I can see a point 10
seconds down the road where I might feel
threatened I would draw my weapon just
in case it happened twice just in case
then we went through something you've
I'm sure Seen On TV it's a shooting
gallery so you've got your you've got
your gun out and the instructor is right
behind you and he's got his hand on your
shoulder
and a guy pops up in a window and he's
got a a machine gun and you go bang bang
and he plops down and then a woman pops
up holding a baby over here and you know
you have to make sure not to shoot her
if you shoot her you f
I have chills thinking about it taking
me back I haven't talked about this in
decades and so um crazy as it sounds
like got 100% I was like a freaking
Marksman and the funny thing is on the
very first day of of the weapons
training um like I say there were eight
of us and the instructor said anybody
here not own a gun and I I raised my
hand and I kind of looked around and I
was the only guy that had his hand up he
he goes you don't own a gun and I said
truth be told I've never actually
touched a real gun and he goes oh my God
okay we're gonna have to start from the
very
beginning and I ended up testing first
in the class to the point where one of
the instructors said you should give
some thought to competitive shooting wow
and so I did and I ended up like winning
trophies in ski I just had a knack for
it I had a very steady hand and um it
served me well wow mhm that's so
interesting about the scenarios they set
up like you said at the motel and with
the blindfold is it a matter of like how
fast can you process information and
make decisions with the available
information is that kind of what they're
exactly what it is and not just in the
shooting but in the driving too you know
you might have seen on on one of these
oldtime cop shows like Adam 12 for
example i' seen this on atam 12 um
you're you're speeding toward three red
lights right there there are three
lanes you're in the middle Lane red red
red and one second before you get to the
red lights one of them turns green and
you have to Swerve as fast as you can to
the green light and if you go through
the lane with the red light you fail and
if you fail you can't go
overseas and and so it was the same
thing with the driving man I aced the
counterterrorism driving I aced it to
the point
where um they came up to me afterwards
and said when are you leaving for for
overseas and I said oh I still have two
more months and they said we want you to
take the advanced driving class it's out
in the Nevada desert he said that's real
counterterrorism driving and so I went
out there and it was like driving over
sand dunes and what do you do if you get
stuck in the sand and it was it was good
stuff I learned a
lot so when you're when you're going
through this and you mentioned a couple
times like if you up once you're
done done so you're thinking to yourself
this is something I really want yeah for
my life and there's a lot of pressure
especially you never fired a gun before
and you're taking shooting test how did
you and I'll expand this question
throughout your career but how did you
compartmentalize stress and dealing with
it in that course and through the rest
of your that's a very important
question um it would be a lie to say
that I was as good at comp
compartmentalizing the stress as I
thought I was we all think we're so
smart and so good and so Advanced and so
much better than everybody else and
we're not we're human beings my first
wife uh was not a CIA officer she was a
ballet
teacher and I couldn't tell her anything
and so I thought I was
compartmentalizing this very
nicely and I'd go home and she'd say how
was work and I'd say great what' you do
nothing did you talk to anybody
interested
nope well how'd you spend your day the
office none of that was true but she
wasn't cleared for the
information and so it got to the point
where I'd go home and she'd say which
dude work today he nothing what was her
name and I'd say Joanne I'm not cheating
on you I'm seriously not cheating on
you yeah then why'd you leave at
midnight and not come home until
6 I was working uh-huh at 3:00 in the
morning uhhuh I'd say yeah I was you're
just GNA have to take my word for it so
that doesn't last very long yeah it's uh
I would imagine not easy on marriages
and that's probably why the agency
encourages um like inter agency
relationships yeah because you're both
cleared and you can both talk about it
so when I went to when I went to
Pakistan I was um dating a senior Cia
officer we ended up getting married
and the day I was leaving Pakistan just
as an example um
I was supposed to head straight home and
we were going to uh get on a plane and
fly to Santa Fe New Mexico for a
vacation decompressed from
Pakistan and uh and have a good time so
here I am two hours before leaving the
embassy and I get a cable from
headquarters and it says don't return
instead go to this other country we want
you to break into an apartment and plant
a bug and I was like damn
it I really needed that vacation we just
caught upu zua I'm all stressed out so I
called her and I said listen I have
really bad news and she said no no I saw
the cable go do your break-in we'll go
to Santa Fe some other time and so I
went and broke into this house and
planted a bug and a month later then we
went to Santa Fe
I'll be right back
yeah um so let's uh let's set the stage
for your first case officer job um what
is the role of a case officer or spy
yeah uh the role of a case officer is
very very simple it's to recruit spies
to steal Secrets period that's it now
it's more complicated than that in the
actual implementation of the job but the
the the goal is really that simple so
you know people have this romantic view
that you're going to infiltrate a
terrorist group no you're not most of
those guys have blonde hair and blue
eyes and don't speak a word of Arabic
you're not infiltrating anybody but
you're going to find somebody who can
infiltrate uh a terrorist group
so there's something called the asset
acquisition cycle this is the very first
thing that they teach you when you go
into case officer training the asset
acquisition cycle is spot assess develop
recruit you have to spot someone who is
going to be what they call operationally
interesting um for
example you are a nice guy I like
hanging out with you but you're not
operationally interesting to me because
you don't have access to classified
information
and you don't have access to a terrorist
group so we may go out and have a beer
but I'm not going to actively seek to
recruit you and to make you a CIA asset
now we also we we also call assets
agents I wasn't a CIA agent I was a CIA
officer and the person I recruited is
the agent so um spot assess develop
recruit in a perfect world I'm going to
go to a diplomatic cocktail party and
I'm going to spot a Russian a Chinese a
Cuban an Iranian a North Korean etc etc
and then I'm going to say hey how about
lunch and I'm going to take you to lunch
and I'm going to pay of course because I
have a budget that is literally
unlimited
literally and then I'm going to take you
to dinner and then I'm going to invite
you and your wife to dinner with my wife
and me and then our wives are going to
become friends and you're going to
mention to me that you like fishing and
so I'm going to Charter a boat and I'm
going to take you deep sea fishing and
we're going to have a
blast and then your wife is going to say
how much she enjoys living in that City
because the skyline's so beautiful so
I'm going to rent a helicopter and we're
going to go on a sunset helicopter tour
of the skyline
and then our kids are going to become
friends and we're going to get to the
point in between 9 and 18 months where
you consider me to be your best friend
we're best
friends now I have a personality where I
can manipulate people like that I can
turn it on and
off and I'm not proud of that it's just
the way my brain is
wired some guys can't turn it off and
that's
why they have five marriages
and they you know go to prostitutes and
they steal from people and you know
whatever I did it because I believed we
were the good guys and I was doing it in
service to my country so after 9 months
I'm also going to be looking for what we
call vulnerabilities now a vulnerability
may be that you really really love your
kids now because you love your kids so
much you want your kids to go to the
best
university well not only can I get your
kid into the best university and just
name the
University Stanford Harvard you know
Millersville State College I don't care
pick it we'll get him in but I'll pay
for
it if you give me two hours in your code
room or you give me the plans to that
new Russian
tank right yeah or a soil sample from
your nuclear power
plant I'll do whatever you
want but I can only have that
conversation if you are my best friend
now let me back up to the application
process for a moment when we were going
through the application process a bunch
of us in the
room the interviewer said let's go over
a scenario Ario let's say and remember
none of us have been hired yet let's say
you're a CIA officer overseas and you
get a cable from headquarters saying
that they need for you to get let's say
the latest Indonesian trade
numbers what do you
do everybody
agreed we invite the Indonesian economic
officer to lunch okay that's how you
start
and then you invite him to dinner and
then you invite him to dinner with his
wife and your wife just like I laid
out but after nine months you determine
that this guy is not recruitable he
doesn't have any vulnerabilities he
doesn't need any money he doesn't have
any kids he's perfectly happy in his
life there's no hook for you to recruit
him what do you do one guy raised his
hand and he said you double down even if
it takes another year you just keep
working him maybe something will come
up one guy raised his hand said maybe
you bring your wife into it which is a
big no no unless she's CIA and she gets
approved from headquarters bring your
wife into it maybe the wife can talk to
his wife and I'm looking around
like it seemed obvious to me I raised my
hand I said you break into his Embassy
and steal it he goes that's exactly what
you do
that's exactly what you do you write to
headquarters you say send out a locks
and pick team we're going to break into
the embassy at 2:00 in the morning we're
going to take down the security cameras
we're going to steal the document get
back out turn the cameras back on nobody
has any idea we were
there and I
thought I I could do that I have kind of
a knack for
that
sure and then you know that was another
thing you have to be able to think very
very quickly on your
feet um I had to do a break-in one
time uh we believed that there was a
woman who was a member of a terrorist
group and we believed that she had one
of the
weapons in her
apartment so I flew out to this country
and
um and I was working with the host
country
uh intelligence service it was a joint
operation so everything was on the up
and up I'm assuming you can't say where
that was
no and so I fly in my people pick me up
they take me to the intelligence Service
headquarters for the briefing so I meet
their team and they said here's the
scenario she lives in this luxury
apartment building there are two
apartments on every floor so it's this
tall
skinny apartment building Condo building
so she's on the sixth floor she's the
apartment on the left so there's a and b
I said so who's in B they said don't
worry about it it's a government
employee married to a lawyer and they're
both at work I said okay great this will
be easy so they say the
target every single day she leaves her
apartment at 10:00 she buys a newspaper
and she goes to a coffee shop he said
we're going to have a team on
to make sure that she doesn't leave the
coffee shop early she usually stays
there an hour or two if she leaves early
we'll call and abort the operation I
said perfect this is going to be piece
of
cake
so we get to the apartment building we
didn't want to take the elevator because
the elevator makes a
sound so I go with a lock
picker and um we walk up the six
flights and uh just like they said
there's Apartment A and Apartment B so
the lock picker puts his little tool
into the lock and he starts doing this
to Jimmy it he's got these these tools
that look
like like
uh very thick needles right so we doing
this and I hear a voice in in apartment
B
and I was like that's that's got to be a
mistake apartment B's at
work and I hear a baby cry like a
newborn baby I was like oh my God she
just had a baby and they didn't know it
and she's on maternity leave I'm
thinking to myself the guy is doing the
lock like as silently as
possible and I hear a woman's voice say
in
Arabic I think there's someone outside
in the
hall and I go stop so he stops he's just
Frozen and then the husband says I don't
hear anything in the
hall I
go and he starts doing it and then she
says no I think I hear something out
there I go stop and he stops and we're
Frozen and the husband says you're
imagining things there's nothing out
there go he starts doing
this and she says I definitely hear
something and she opens the door and
just as she opens the door I turn to
block him and she says who are you and I
said hi I
said I go an Muhammad Ahmed I'm Muhammad
Ahmed I said said I'm looking for my my
aunt um Miriam
Ahmed and she goes there's no Miriam
Ahmed here I said is this you know 123
Main
Street and she's like no this is 125
Main Street one 123's next door I said
oh I'm so
sorry and she said Okay and she looks at
me funny and I said congratulations on
your baby she's holding the baby she's
like thank you and she goes back in and
closes the door and I go
go and it click and we went into the
apartment I was like man that was the
closest call I ever had so we never
found the weapon we never found anything
in there of interest and then we we
waited until they were going about their
business again and then we as quietly as
possible left and afterwards we we met
up it's called a hot wash you go over
the entire operation we went back to the
headquarters I was like you guys like
seriously up they were both the
whole family was in that
apartment yeah that was a close one wow
that's a great story um I have so many
questions on that so one of the things
you said is about her morning routine
she went to the coffee shop every
morning and that's what's called pattern
of Life yep um do you still mix yours up
like how is that I'm sure you were
taught that in surveillance detection at
the farm and you know through the trade
craft schools how does that impact your
life today do you still mix up your
pattern of life and do all that I do for
a couple of reasons first of all later
on in my career I became a surveillance
and surveillance detection instructor um
so I'd work my normal job during the day
and then at night um I was part of an
instructor's team that would train new
officers in surveillance and
surveillance to protection so I took it
very very seriously and I write at
length in my first book about
how how seriously I took surveillance uh
when I was stationed in Athens and even
still um I almost bought it and my next
door neighbor instead was assassinated
so you've got to be very diligent very
serious about your personal safety and
especially about surveillance and
surveillance detection um
after I left the
agency I maintained those skills I wrote
another book called the CIA Insider
guide to surveillance and surveillance
detection I taught a a university level
class at George Washington University on
surveillance and surveillance detection
and then I noticed right off the bat
that the FBI is following me right so
yeah you never know who's going to be
following you it could be a private an
eye cuz your spouse doesn't trust you it
could be a carjacker or a Mugger or the
FBI or you know the local cops or
whatever you just never know it's more
common than you might think so it's only
very recently and I mean like in the
last year that I don't leave my house at
a different time every day I just don't
care anymore nobody's interested in me
anymore you know so now I have a pattern
and for almost my entire adult life I
never established a pattern never it's
too dangerous too
risky
interesting um and another thing you
said
about having a knack for creating these
friendships
um when I think about like intrinsic
likeability I heard another uh case
Officer Jim Lawler in an interview he
said Jim's a good guy yeah he seems like
it I would I would love to have him on
um he said when he was taking a he was
taking somebody out to dinner that he
was trying to recruit as an asset and
the guy said to him you know Jim when I
talk to you I feel like my brain is just
in a warm bubble bath see and when I met
you I thought to myself you know what
like I like John I like him a lot that's
how I judge people would I like to have
a beer with this guy yeah yes I would so
when you create that relationship with
an
asset is it real or is it fake ah
another good
question um in about 50% of the cases
it's real so of the people that I
recruited over the course of my
career um half of them were genuine bad
guys genuine terrorists murderers
Psychopaths and it was
a it was a transactional
relationship money for
information the other
half were guys that I genuinely liked
and they genuinely liked
me and after I went public now I a lot
of these recruitments a lot of these
operations I was doing an alias not
using my real real
name and
and and there were two who saw me on TV
after I went public two who I had
recruited in Alias who reached out to me
and said hey remember me wow and I'm
like how could I possibly forget you and
and one of them still sends me Christmas
cards
crazy so yeah it's it you're you're not
all
sociopaths you know know some of these
people you really genuinely like I I had
one asset who cried when I left when I
left the country he actually
cried yeah good
guy good guy you know he was he was I
don't want to get too far down into the
weeds but when he was initially
recruited he was recruited only with
special permission of the director
because he was considered to be a
terrorist he wasn't a terrorist
he had friends who were terrorists but
he these friends were friends from like
Elementary School from childhood you
know how they say in Irish neighborhoods
of Boston you either grow up to be a cop
or a mobster it was the same thing right
he grew up to be I won't say what he was
but he grew up to be a normal law biting
Citizen and all of his childhood friends
were were
terrorists and
so he was initially recruited I didn't
recruit him he was initially recruited
by a specialized counterterrorism
officer who flew out just for the
recruitment because it was deemed to be
too dangerous for me to do it and then
once he was recruited and polygraphed he
turned him over to
me well I realized yeah this guy has
access to some of the most dangerous
people in this country but he's a
genuinely good
guy and so not only did I handle him for
the two years that I was in this country
but even when I transferred back to
headquarters I would continue to fly out
once a month to handle him and I was
able to get his paperwork transferred
from the terrorist designation to the
equivalent of the the good guy
designation and then um and then when I
finally said listen I decided to resign
and I'm going to go into the private
sector I'm going to move back to the
states he just burst into tears yeah
crazy is espionage an art or science oh
it's very much an art very much an art I
sat next to a guy in Arabic
class I admired this guy so much we were
contemporaries same age but he was a
goodlooking well-built smart
[Music]
case officer his father had been a
senior Cia case officer and this
colleague of mine had a knack for Arabic
his Arabic like how he learned Arabic as
quickly as he
did it was amazing to me I I just
admired his smarts and he was fun to be
around and I said to him one time you
know what man I would let you recruit me
I said you've won me over you really
have a knack for for this so we finished
Arabic I went to the country I was going
to he went to the country he was going
to and then he cables me and he said hey
you're going to be in my neck of the
woods anytime soon and I said not
necessarily but there's a three-day
weekend coming up how about if I come
out and uh and we'll hang out and have a
couple of beers and he said great and I
thought that's kind of odd but okay
so I fly out to his country he picks me
up at the airport and I I was like so
how's it
going and this big
tear just drops from his eye and I'm
looking at him like and he goes I'm not
cut out for this job I go what do you
mean you're not cut out for this job you
were the best of all of us in the
training he said I can't do it I can't
convince people to Comm treason for me I
can't do it my gut just won't let me do
it he said I feel so guilty I'm
manipulating them I'm lying to them they
think that we're friends and they're not
my friends he said I can't do it but my
dad was a superstar of the CIA he said I
can't let my dad
down I go what are you going to do he
goes how many people have you recruited
I said two so far he goes I haven't done
any I'm going to get passed over for
promotion and if I don't get any in the
next 6 months they're going to curtail
my assignment and they're going to send
me back to headquarters for more
training he said I can't do
it I said dude you got to nip this in
the bud then don't drag it out if it's
not for you it's not for you he said but
I don't want another job in the agency I
don't want to be a paper pusher I don't
want to be an analyst I said you should
quit and do whatever makes you
happy he became a
veterinarian yeah he said that's what
would make him happy he had a
three-legged dog and he was always
bringing taking in these Strays I'm like
your house looks like a freaking
managerie man but that's what that's the
only thing that made him happy became a
veterinarian and his dad was not
disappointed in him it's for you it's
not for you no problem but it it's it's
an
art either you're cut out for it or
you're not
and if you're not that's perfectly cool
I worked with another guy his dad was
his dad had been the deputy director of
the CIA for operations that's the
highest ranking spy the highest ranking
spy it the boss of all spies in all
divisions this guy had a congenital
heart
defect and he had uh he had open heart
surgery as a as an infant so he had this
Wicked scar right down the middle of his
chest and he couldn't pass the medical
exam because you have to be in I mean
you're jumping out of planes and you
know shooting people and it's you got to
be in good shape and so
um his dad got him a waiver because all
he was every day I want to be a case
officer I want to be a case officer I
want to be a case officer okay all right
your dad's the
boss so his dad's like case officer he
goes through the training arrogant son
of a gun arrogant and his last name was
was um was unique so it's not like
everybody's got this name like oh is
your dad yeah it's my
dad so we were going out to this
assignment we ended up going to the same
the same
country and he just fell flat on his
face he just couldn't pull the couldn't
pull the trigger
like he would
say I think I'm getting them to the
point where they're going to be ready
for the pitch and I said to him one day
buddy I'm reading your outgoing cables
they were ready for the pitch six months
ago they're like recruiting themselves
and offering them up to you and
themselves up to you all you have to do
is ask the question oh I don't know what
if they say no they could blow my
cupboard yeah that's the risk we we run
they'll blow your cover and then you get
thrown out of the country so be a big
boy and make the pitch he ended up
saying this job's not for me went back
to
headquarters pushing paper nepotism at
the CIA there was there was another case
officer a woman smart she had gone to
Yale as an undergrad and then she went
to Michigan for a a master's degree in
uh in international Affairs um spoke
beautiful farsy and the station Chief
came to me one day and said you know
this woman in your branch she's just not
working out I go really I'm so
surprised she inherited several
agents um but she writes no
intelligence and I said wow I said it
was always my personal view that if you
do an operational meeting you're taking
the risk of doing an operational meeting
so you're doing a three-hour
surveillance detection route before the
meeting right to make sure you're not
being followed you do the meeting for
two hours and then you do another 2hour
route home to make sure you're not being
being followed that's a commitment and
it's
dangerous and then you get back to the
head to the uh the embassy and you're
like H I got nothing to report they
didn't say anything interesting okay
first of all you're lying second of all
if you weren't lying and they didn't say
anything interesting you need to fire
them because that $2,000 a month or
5,000 or $10,000 a month we're paying
them we can pay to somebody else who is
giving us
intelligence so the station Chief said
do me a
favor and go with her on her next
operational
meeting and explain to her what
intelligence
is so I said to her beforehand I said
listen the chief said I should go with
you she said yeah yeah I heard and I
said we're you're going to do the uh the
interview and I'll take notes and then
after it's all over we'll go over what
is reportable
intelligence and I said but I'll tell
you my own bias is if you come out of an
operational meeting without one at least
one intelligence reporting cable you
have failed that's a failure so we go we
do the meeting fascinating agent not
someone I would have focused on but
fascinating nonetheless nonetheless and
um we finish the meeting we all Shake
Hands the agent leaves I go what did you
think and she goes I really didn't get
anything out of that I said I got five
intelligence reports out of that meeting
she says how so I started going over my
notes he said this that's going to be be
interesting to the such and such
division he said that I think the
counternarcotics center would like to
know that then he said this this and the
other thing and I said all you have to
know is how headquarters works and what
the different divisions and groups are
in headquarters and then you tailor your
questions to their issues everybody has
what's called an OD an operating
directive it goes from tier zero to tier
five tier zero is they're coming over
the walls of the embassy reported
immediately okay so that's
terrorism
Russia North Korean nuclear program
let's say I'm making this up um tier one
is stuff that you need to pretty much
drop everything and collect on this tier
two is stuff that's important but don't
you know go crazy tier three is if you
happen to develop it in the course of
your interview report it that's what all
of this stuff was tier four is like ah
an analyst had a question but don't kill
yourself tier five is nobody really
gives a anymore so don't don't
bother well all of this stuff was tier
two and tier three and she just wasn't
getting
it and so after I left the agency I ran
into her at the mall one time and I said
how are things going she said I'm not a
case officer anymore she said that job
just wasn't for me I just didn't know it
was important so she said she had
transferred to Liaison uh and what
liaison does is when we have visiting
dignitaries come She lays out the the
buffet and you know takes them to
dinner
whatever not something I would have
wanted to
do so last thing on on this before we
move into Greece when when you're
talking about finding vulnerabilities
and assets
there's you know
Revenge ideology mentioned greed uhhuh
money yep what's the best for John
greed greed's the
best even people who you suspect might
be willing to do it for ideology are
doing it for the
money in my entire CIA career I only had
one agent who I recruited
who refused to take any
money he did it just cuz he liked
me and then in the end I said listen you
you got to let me do something for you
you got to let me get you a Rolex or
something he's like no he I make $20,000
a year I'm going to walk around with a
Rolex I said you got to let me do
something he said listen my grandson
really wants to go to school in the
United States I said
done and he said no no I don't want you
to pay pay for it um his English isn't
perfect and I'm not sure he would get
through the application process but he
really wants to go to the University of
Oklahoma and I go really I can get him
into Harvard Yale Stanford Dartmouth
name it he said he wants to go to the
University of
Oklahoma I said okay
done that was it got him in
we have a whole office that just does
that yeah that's a good one
yeah so um your first case officer job
you go to Greece M which was probably
nice for you yeah it was great um what
were you doing over
there I was uh very specifically
assigned to uh
disrupt uh a terrorist group called
revolutionary organization 17 November
was the deadliest terrorist group in the
history of Greece they had murdered uh
28 people including the CIA station
Chief uh two American defense
attaches and a poor hapless Air Force
technical Sergeant doing his laundry in
the basement laundry room of his
apartment
building
um they
were incredibly lethal and SU
successful and um and extraordinarily
dangerous to all Americans in Greece
Greece was ranked as what's called
critical threat for terrorism in those
days critical is the highest level
threat uh we spent more money on
security in Athens than we spent in
Beirut at the time and what year was
this by the way 1998 to
2000 um the Greeks ended up cracking in
the group in 2002 it no longer
exists uh but uh that was one incredibly
tough job and to make it tougher we
weren't able to ident to identify a
single member of the group they were so
good at masking their identities we had
suspects we had 500 suspects and the
group only ended up having but a dozen
people in it um but there were other
groups there was one called Popular
revolutionary struggle there was one
called um revolutionary nuclei there was
uh sons of the anarchic something or
other I forget they were mostly
Anarchist groups but popular
revolutionary struggle and um and
revolutionary organization 17 November
were legitimate terrorist groups well
funded well financed we suspected they
were getting their weapons from Carlos
the jackal uh and probably the libyans
at the time um that turned out to
be kind of true they got some weapons
from the libyans and uh popular
revolutionary struggle did get their
weapons from Carlos The Jackal but not
17 November it was totally
domestic
yeah so you mentioned before the attempt
on your life and Greece can you tell
that
story
yeah
so so surveillance was of the utmost
Import in in Greece because like I said
we were never able to identify these
guys and they were shooting and in some
cases killing Embassy employees um they
killed and permanently dis they killed
our station Chief they permanently
disabled our DEA rep they killed two of
our defense atet um they tried to kill a
state department officer I mean they
they were on us all the
time and so I was really really careful
about my own security I was heavily
armed all the time what did you carry I
had carried a 9mm um Glock on my in a
fanny pack on my waist and a a snubnose
38 revolver on my ankle and then just in
case I kept a I kept a a a buck knife in
my back pocket I carried two extra
magazines in my fanny pack it was a ter
waste it was quick
action you know I even remember going to
church with my wife and and kids one
Sunday and asking God to forgive me for
taking all these weapons into church but
I was literally never without them so
I'm at a party one night uh this was in
March of 2
I met a diplomatic cocktail party
and and a a guy had just moved in Caddy
corner from me our backyards touched
caddy corner he was a brigadier general
British he was the new British defense
attache by the name of Steven
Saunders and Steve was a great guy
just funny and fun and gregarious and
outgoing the life of the part kind of
guy and his wife was lovely and they had
two teenage
daughters so he was making fun of me in
a joking way because I drove a fully
armored BMW 540 it was the first 540 in
Greece we needed that big engine to
carry all the weight of that armor even
the windows were that thick I'm not
exaggerating it was the first 540 in
gree we couldn't even ensure it we had
to ensure it through a company in
Germany right so he was making fun of my
car and he said you Americans you're so
paranoid about security he goes this is
an EU country it's a NATO country what
are you so afraid of and everybody
Chuckles and I said you Brits live in a
dream world if you think because they
have palm trees and pretty beaches that
they're not going to kill you if they
get the chance take my word for it I
said if they do get the chance they're
going to kill you and we all
laughed two weeks
later I slept in by
accident and what I would do every day
is I'd get up at a different time and
take a different route to work so I
never established a
pattern
and that way it's impossible to do
surveillance on me
so sometimes it would take 20 minutes to
get to work sometimes it would take two
hours to get to work and all of us did
this so we all knew you're going to be
in eventually we're all working 12 and
14 hour days anyway so it's not like
you're not going to put in your eight
hours so we're just driving like crazy
people you know all over the the the
city but I slept in and I was like damn
it it's like
10:00 which means I got to get on the
main road which I never
did well I lived exactly 10 miles from
the embassy and it was a straight shot
on Kei CS Boulevard straight shot down
the mountain from my house to the
Embassy no turns no nothing the problem
with that is there were concrete Jersey
barriers the whole way so I can't get
off so once you're on you're committed
so I was like dang it I just got to take
the most direct way I'm just going to
get on see us and just go straight so I
get on it's a parking lot it's like
Cairo or Bangkok I'm like what in the
world at 10:00 in the
morning so I put on the radio which I
also never did because I didn't want to
be distracted you have to constantly
constantly scan your side view mirrors
constantly because 17 November would
come up on a motorcycle two guys on a
motorcycle a a driver and the shooter in
the back and they' put two in your head
and then just take off and nobody no one
ever got a glimpse of them so I'm
constantly scanning the the side view
mirrors and the rearview
mirror and I put on the radio because
I'm just sitting there and they say on
the
radio avoid GS
Avenue because there was a traffic
incident at filo well filo is like at
the halfway point I'm like dang I got
five miles of this
I thought well I'm committed I can't get
off so I'm just sitting there inching my
way down the mountain six feet at a time
and then on the radio half an hour later
they said avoid GS Avenue uh there's
been a criminal incident at filo I said
a criminal incident and I've never heard
that before must be a bank robbery or
something so I'm inching my way down
finally as I'm getting to the jam up
they come back on and they say avoid F
avoid CS Avenue there was a terrorist
attack at
filo and as soon as they said terrorist
attack I can see a red I'm sorry a a
white Rover you know the British
Rover and there's police tape around
it the
side uh window is shot out and there's
just blood spatter all over the back
windshield and I noticed the license
plate says
ybh and then four numbers well Greece
was so dangerous that the American
Embassy didn't get diplomatic plates it
was too alerting so we got just regular
normal license plates but the Greeks in
their Infinite
Wisdom gave everybody in the American
Embassy plates that began with yhb mhm
and I thought oh that poor son of a gun
some Greek they thought they mixed up
yhb and ybh and they killed some
innocent
Greek and then I thought no wait a
minute ybh is the British Embassy they
don't have diplomatic plates
either and that Rover belongs to Steve
Saunders so I get on the phone and I
called the station and I said listen I'm
stuck in traffic on qcs and I think
somebody just hit Steve
Saunders and my boss said what do you
what do you see and I said there's so
much blood in this
car he couldn't have lived so I I
described what I was seeing and then I
get around his car and they call me back
they said we just called the British
Embassy and they were wondering where he
was because he wasn't at
work so it turned out
they pulled up
alongside the driver shot him with the
same 45 that they did all of their hits
with all 28 hits but the the passenger
on the back pulled out some kind of a
long gun and shot him with an armor
piercing round that blew his right hand
completely off his right hand was on the
floor of the passenger side Jesus so
they killed him
instantly so a taxi driver and a a guy
in in a car next to him pulled him out
of the car put him in the taxi and
rushed him to the Red Cross hospital so
the Brits called all the hospitals and
the Red Cross said yes we have this man
in a British military uniform uh but
he's dead he was dead he came in Dead on
Arrival so they called me back they said
he's
dead so I said it's it's chaos out here
I got to the Embassy and my boss said
don't take your jacket off we're going
to go to the to the
service meaning the the host
intelligence service so we pick up the
Brits and we go over there and of course
I had never met the Brits and they had
never met me because I'm doing my thing
and they're doing their thing and you
know never the two shall meet so I'm
like hi I'm John I'm sorry for your loss
hi I'm Ian hi I'm you know Nigel
whatever and we go over to the Greeks
the Greeks are like H
sorry and I
said this is the 28th
victim like how many more is it going to
take before you guys are serious about
this oh sorry but we're committed to
working with you to cracking this
group and so we got orders from
headquarters that we were to open the
files in their entirety to the
Brits and um that started a that started
a three-year relationship that I had
with the Brits on
counterterrorism I was a regular in
London like all the time all the time
and
then the the Greeks just broke the group
accidentally in
2002 um one of the terrorist terrorists
was carrying a bomb in a paper bag that
he was going to put under the car of a
Greek ship owner in parus and the bomb
went went off prematurely and it blew
his hands off and it blew his right eye
out and so he thought he was dying and
he confessed to everything and gave up
the location of the of the guns and the
bombs and the safe house and the names
of all the other members and then he
lived and so the Greeks got everybody
damn yeah so that must have uh hit a
little close to home huh boy it sure did
to make matters worse and the reason why
this was so important to me um was uh a
couple of months passed and you know one
of the things that 17 November did was
they would always either throw a
Manifesto down at the site of the hit or
mail a Manifesto to one of the left-wing
newspapers and
um and so what they did was they waited
for several months and then they mailed
their Manifesto to the Lefty paper and
it
said asopos we saw the big
spy but he was in an armored car and we
knew he was
armed so we elected to carry out the the
Revolutionary sentence on the war
criminal
Saunders so my boss calls me and he says
have you seen the news I said no I'm in
the car what news and he
says they were going to hit you the day
that they hit Saunders I said no I'm so
careful about my my personal security he
said no they refer to you in the
manifesto I said what Manifesto he said
they just sent it to gimini not no it
wasn't it wasn't
gim the left this
paper so I get in and I'm reading it
everybody's like gathered around me and
my boss says you got to go like right
now I said my wife is at home my kids
are at school he said we'll pick them up
so one car took me to the airport I
called my wife I said I don't have time
to explain but a car is coming to get
you and then go to the school and get
the kids and I'm going to meet you at
the
airport and I had told her like 2 years
earlier if something terrible should
happen happen somebody's going to come
and pick you up so just go with it I
couldn't tell her anything
else so they took me to the airport they
picked up my wife they picked up my kids
at the school they go to the airport we
were on the 12:00 Delta flight back to
New York and then the embassy sent a
team to my house to just pack everything
in boxes and ship it back and that was
it and you know months
later I had some pictures developed
um my mom and dad had come out to visit
us um when Steve was killed like the
week after Steve was killed and um I
took a picture of my mom she's on her
knee and she's holding my two sons they
were little at the time they were like
three and
six and so I'm on my knee at taking a
picture of them and there's a red car in
the background and there's a guy sitting
in the car and he's looking right in the
camera and I thought boy that's just so
odd and so I cabled it out saying hey I
know it's all after the fact but can you
run this plate and it turned out that
the plate was
stolen so I said how in the world the
only thing we were able to conclude
we've never been able to figure it out
but what we concluded was
um they were looking at him because he
was so public he was giving interviews
to newspapers and he's on TV at these
diplomatic parties and so they went
looking for him and while and our houses
were right next to each other and then
they saw
yhb and they were like
ahuh and that car is
armored that can only mean
CIA yeah yeah that was the first of two
yeah
incidents yeah we'll go we'll get into
the second one for sure
um you mentioned that
uh you were that one of one of the
events that you just talked about you
mentioned that you were looking in your
side view mirrors and you mentioned
before that that you did pull your gun
at a couple points in your career and I
think um there was something that
happened in Greece where there was a guy
in a motorcycle that followed you and
that kind of prompted you doing those
things what's that
story yeah this this is one of these
incidents that leads to
PTSD
um when I my family and I first arrived
in Athens uh the embassy put us up in a
in an apartment uh because they hadn't
yet gotten a house I I went sort of out
of
cycle most people go summer to Summer
and I arrived a couple of months in so
uh they needed to go out and find a
house so we're in this apartment and
then they finally find us a house and um
and we're moving all our stuff up to the
house
uh the the embassy has a truck for most
of our boxes and then my wife was in a
car and I was in my armored car and I
had just bought a TV at the PX it was a
big one it took up the whole back seat
not big like we have today but you know
it is 25 years ago so it was pretty big
I took up the whole seat so I'm driving
up the same gias
Avenue and there's a there's a
motorcyclist and he's trying really hard
to stay in my blind spot and I thought
that's kind of odd so I speed up and he
speeds up I slow down he slows down I
move over a lane he moves over a lane
my wife calls me she's in the car ahead
of me and she says do you see this guy
and I said yeah I'm starting to get
nervous and she said you don't think
it's 17 November and I said they can't
possibly be on me yet I said I don't
know I don't know what this guy is doing
and she said are you nervous I said yeah
nervous enough that I think I'm going to
hit him I'm going to I'm going to try to
hit
him and she said okay so I hung up and I
sped up and he sped up and then I
slammed my brakes as hard as I could and
I swerved right to hit him and I barely
missed
him
so we did this a couple of times and
then there's this enormous
intersection at the headquarters of the
Greek uh what's it called the helenic
tele commmunications organization it's
the AT&T of Greece this is a major Cross
Roads so it's it's like it's like eight
lanes and it's all red lights and it's
all jammed up so I I've got to stop I I
can't get away I can't plow through you
know eight cars in front of me so I was
like okay you're trained for this so um
I pull my gun out I I put the car in
park first I pull the gun out I get out
and I said I
said what do you want you son of a
and he goes like this he smiles at
me and he goes I'm not afraid of your
gun and I thought oh my God like that's
not the response that you're trained to
expect so I
thought okay I either have to kill
him or get off the X as they
say well just then as I'm as I'm holding
the gun on him and these other cars are
like right everybody else the other cars
so I've got the gun on him the light
turns green enough cars pull
over I get back in the car put it in
drive I take off he pulls out a gun he
gets one shot
off and it just barely Nicks my bumper
like just a mark on the
bumper so I get my phone I call the
Embassy Security meets me there the
chief arrives at my house my wife is
there just before I
am um we had private security at the
embassy too wacken Hut at the time or
however you say it in Dutch or Danish or
whatever Swedish whatever it is we
always called it wack aut so they put a
they put a 24-hour guard on my
house um we went to the service there
was no license plate on the motorcycle
we went to the service they couldn't
help we we figured afterwards that this
was a
carjacking that um he saw the
TV uh he was going to follow me to
wherever it was I was going to go and he
was going to take the car we think that
there was no plate on the motorcycle
because it was probably stolen which was
quite common back then and that it was
just a crime of opportunity I just was
unlucky that day yeah
so how many people did you recruit while
you're in Greece if you can say I
probably can't say Okay less than five
no can you
tell a story or two of um recruitments
maybe you know you can whitewash the
names and stuff but something that
stands
out there was
one you know working on 17 November it
had a very rich and deep history
and so I was going back through files
going back to the night that our station
Chief dick Welch was assassinated in
1975 December 23rd
1975 um dick and his wife had gone to
the ambassador's Christmas party and
then they left the Christmas party
December 23rd they drove back to the
house in a close in very high-end suburb
called
Piko and those were the days before
autumn itic
Gates so their driver pulls up to the
gate and he puts the car in park and he
gets out to open the gate when he did
that two people got out of a car parked
across the street two people remained in
the car a woman and a male driver two
other men got out both of them had guns
one was a 45 that has become known as
The Welch 45 it's been used in it was
was used in every hit that 177 November
ever carried out and a 38
revolver and one of the um men shouts
Richard Welch get out of the car the
driver runs for his life dick gets out
with his wife she gets out she was very
stoic and very
strong and our only
witness they've got the guns on him and
one of them says Richard Welch you have
been convicted of crimes against the
Greek people and you have been sentenced
to death and shoots him three times in
the
chest they calmly get back in the car
and drive
away so Mrs Welch of course screams runs
inside calls the embassy it's
chaos reading those old historic cables
was so revelatory
the first cable was something called a
flash flash means wake everybody up no
matter what time of the night and call
the director because he's going to need
to brief the president it's the
highest well there's one Higher called a
critic but flash is almost as high as it
goes
so
um the the whole contents of the cable
were um
uh Chief Welch uh shot and killed in
front of Home in Piko that was
it headquarters writes back it had to be
the Russians had to be the Russians but
we always had an agreement with the
Russians that we don't kill their people
and they don't kill our people and on
their own valtion the Russians came to
us the very next morning and said we had
nothing to do with it and we'll help you
in any way that we can
I'm going to make this long story very
short to answer your
question there was a man walking his dog
that
night um he happened to
be the defense atache of an enemy
country and he saw the getaway
car but because he was from an enemy
country nobody ever bothered to talk to
him enemy to the US or to Greece to the
US so I thought I wonder if this guy's
still
alive he'd probably be in his 80s by
now I'm going to look for
him so I send cables out to everybody
right name traces FBI foreign
governments anybody know this guy where
I could find
him so I found him
and he was in his 80s
retired um so I sent a cable to the
chief our chief in that country I said
hey you know here's the story you know
dick Welch we're still working on the
case all these years later 25 years
later um I'd like to come and talk to
this
guy and he said oh look we don't have
any interest or any
money to work on a a 27y old case or 2
5-year-old case we're not interested I
said okay how about if we pay for it and
I'll just fly in and just see what I can
find he said so long as you pay for it
you're welcome to come and do your
thing so I fly in it was like snow past
my my knees I I remember trudging across
this freaking field it's like 9:00 at
night it's dark
so I I go and
um and he's not there it was his
apartment but his wife was there and I I
don't speak their language but I started
to speak to her in Greek and she's like
you speak Greek she says in Greek in
very broken Greek and I saides do you
still speak Greek she said I lived in
Greece many years ago I said yes yes I'm
looking for your husband I wanted to
talk to him about G
and she said oh he's he's working he's
he's a security guard at a bank he's
like the night Watchman at a
bank so she told me where I could find
him
so I go to this bank it's freaking
nighttime
right and I'm banging on the door and
this 80-year-old man in an ill-fitting
night watchman's uniform comes and
answers the door and he's like
yes and
I said his name and he's like
yes I said I'm John kiraku from the CIA
and I'm here to change your
life that's what I said to him and he
smiles and he says my friend I've waited
30 years for this
day and he says please come
in yeah was my first recruitment ever
ever use your real name too absolutely
why because he was no threat to me it's
an 8 something year old
man when you can you use your real name
because you you want them to to trust
you and you know maybe he's going to
call the Embassy tomorrow to make sure
that I'm not KGB Israeli
mosad Iranian You Know M
ois yeah interesting he was a lovely old
man lovely old man and he would always
insist that we would have a drink no no
no we'll talk about business after we
have a drink like okay I'll tell you one
funny thing that
happened he said to me our next meeting
let's do it in my
hometown I said okay where's that he
said it's about 2 hours East of here
it's in the mountains it's very
beautiful there's a lodge a very
beautiful Lodge I would like to take you
and have dinner I would never never let
him pay for anything but I said great
let's do
that so I ran a
car and I meet him out there at this
Lodge and it was stunning like out of a
movie at the top of this mountain all
you see is mountains all around and the
waitress comes up and uh she asked me
what I would like to drink and I said
I'll have an U o and orange juice My
grandmother used to drink
them you don't normally mix uzo with
orange juice you mix it with water or
some people might mix it with Coke I
always I like the freshness of the taste
so who an orange
juice and then they had wild boar which
I had never had before so I had a wild
boar steak steak I still
remember had such a great time I said to
him let's do this again sometime
so a couple months pass and he says hey
you want to meet at the lodge again I
said Ure so I rent a car drive out there
again
and um the waitress comes and says what
do you have and I said how about an uzo
and orange juice and she goes I remember
you you're an
American you're the only person who's
ever ordered that
drink and I was like
I can never come here
again I'll tell you a more appropriate
story about cover and the necessity for
maintaining
cover um the most important event in in
the Diplomatic year of any Embassy is a
presidential visit okay when when the
president of the United States comes you
drop everything and it doesn't make any
difference if you're some highflying CIA
guy or the department of Agriculture rep
who sits in the basement everybody has
to
work so we get this cable from the White
House Bill Clinton's coming everybody's
got to have a job so the Ambassador
signed me my job and it was to take
notes in the president's meeting with
the leader of the opposition who later
became prime minister that was a good
assignment
plus I was an accomplished writer I I
had seven years in analysis and now I've
written nine books I I I write
well and the Ambassador liked my writing
style so um he gave me that assignment
so we're at the Intercontinental
Hotel and it's President
Clinton Secretary of State
Albright National Security adviser Sandy
Berger the Ambassador and me the the
leader of the
opposition his adviser who became
Minister of Foreign Affairs another
adviser who became minister of defense
and their notaker so it's nine of
us so we have this whole it's it's
called the presidential suite at the top
floor of the of the intercon and we have
an entire table that's just full of food
just giant Buffet of fruits and cold
cuts and whatever so I'm standing and
the Greek notetaker is standing the
president is sitting with the prime
minister or he became prime minister a
couple months later and then the AIDS
are on either side and the funny thing
too you know Clinton was just like the
nicest guy in the world he would have
been a terrific case
officer
so he says to uh the the opposition
leader
uh can I get you something to eat we got
all this food here coffee tea he's like
no no no the minister no no nothing
nothing nothing nothing he comes to me
he goes like this would you like
something to
eat and I go oh no thank you Mr
President I'm fine and he goes oh are
you with me I said yes sir I'm with you
sorry I thought you were Greek I said I
kind of am but not really I'm with you
so the meeting
was not substantive the meaning was we
love you you love
us this is the birthplace of democracy
we're a democracy so we love you and you
love us and you buy our weapons and we
have lots of Greek people and then they
got up and they shook hands and they
hugged and that was the end of the
meeting and I'm like how am I going to
write that but that's what I ended up
writing nothing substantive so we go out
into the
hall and Clinton and burger walk out
first the Greeks have departed so
Clinton and burger walk out first then
Albright and the Ambassador walk out and
then I walk out so my job is to keep my
mouth shut and to stand there until
somebody tells me what to do so I'm
standing against the wall just standing
like this and burger and Clinton finish
their conversation so Burger walks over
to Albright and the Ambassador so
Clinton's standing there closer than I
am to you we were only 3 feet away from
each other and just as Burger walks away
the elevator at the end of the hall
opens and Hillary and Chelsea get off
and Hillary's got this this puss on her
face like
this so I'm looking at her and she walks
right up to us and one thing about Bill
and he hates silence he's always got to
be talking and josing and joking and
laughing
and and she's
just looking at him like this and he
says boy we sure had a good time at the
Parthenon this morning didn't we
Hill she just stares at him so he
repeats himself we sure had a good time
at the paron this morning didn't we Hill
and he she says Jesus Christ Bill it
rained all day I'll be in the room and
she walks past us and I'm looking at
him and I know he could tell just from
my eyes like you poor bastard so he
looks at me and he goes let's get the
out of here and he walks to the
elevator so I walk with him to the
elevator and then Burger Albright and
the Ambassador come and the Secret
Service and we went to the basement and
he gave this big speech to the American
business women's Association
okay A month
later my favorite agent triggers a
meeting he said I need to see you I said
okay and he says let's meet up at the
intercon and I said okay I love the
intercon they have a delicious Greek
salad
there so we go to the
intercon and this agent was always
strictly
business I would always I mean no matter
who the agent was I would always say
what can I get you would you like some
dinner would you like me to order a pot
of coffee what can I get from room
service remember my budget is unlimited
whatever these guys want whatever their
hearts desire I want to make the guy
happy so what can I get you he's like no
no no no actually you know he said I
never get anything let's let's order a
pot of coffee I said great I could use a
coffee so I call room service and I said
um I said uh can I order a pot of coffee
for two please guy say sure so
um I should add I'm under alias in this
meeting which becomes important so the
the room service guy comes up knocks on
the door I open the door please come in
he said you have a pot of coffee I said
yes thank you so much the agent is
sitting there like this he was always
very relaxed and he was a chains smoke
he would light one off the other so he's
smoking like this like he owns the place
he was also like 30 years older than me
or
35 he
smoking and the waiter says to
me have I met
you and I said no and the guy smoking he
goes yeah I
have you were the
notetaker in Bill Clinton's meeting with
the lead of the
opposition and I was
like and I said right you were the
waiter you catered the
buffet excuse
me and he goes right he
goes but you live in Athens why are you
in the
hotel and I was
like uh and the agent
says some nephew I have I come all the
way from Chicago he makes me stay in a
hotel
smoking and he's like oh well welcome to
Athens he says to the to the agent who's
lived his entire life in
Athens and uh and I said good to see you
again he's like yeah good to see you and
he left and the agent as he's smoking he
goes we can never meet in this hotel
again I said clearly and he
goes and you need to come up with a
cover story I was like
damn lesson learned man what a
gangster that guy oh he was
Hardcore he was
Hardcore he was one of these guys that
you know I'm glad I didn't know him when
he was young because he probably would
have shot me
yeah yeah did you teach those guys
tradecraft at all you have to okay yeah
it's I'm glad you brought that up
because this same agent I came to love
this guy and I said
listen we're gonna have to do some
operational testing
so do you do a surveillance detection
route he goes of course I am what am I
he says I said no listen I know
I know you've been doing this for a long
time but you got to do surveillance
detection he said I do do surveillance
detection I said okay just so I know
that you do so I write to headquarters
and I said hey can you send a team out I
just want to see if he's telling me the
truth about doing the surveillance
detection route they send this team out
which was a totally normal thing with
these teams just go everywhere just to
do this kind of
thing and at the end of it they called
me I was waiting for him to come up to
the hotel room and they said he did a a
surveillance detection route that was so
ridiculously good we couldn't keep up
with him because it would have blown our
cover I said
excellent excellent so when he came in I
said how'd things go they call it the
mad minute um were you followed uh are
you in fear for your safety uh how much
time do you have to meet and we need to
book our next meeting right now you do
that all in the first 60 seconds in case
you're
disrupted so he's like I said were you
followed he goes no but I did a kick-ass
surveillance detection route and I said
good good good see keeps you
safe
wow that's
awesome um can you say what he did to
trigger the
meeting he
was I asked him if he had access to a
Target and he said
not today but I could her if I
wanted
to I said get out of here he goes she's
been flirting with me for 40
years I said well she has something that
I want can you get close enough to her
to get
it and he said yeah I said then get it
so he triggered the meeting to say he
her and she gave him everything
that I had asked for and he wanted to
give it to me
wow I said you're a dog you know that
you're like an animal I said you're an
old man you're you're older than my
father I told him and you're banging
women to get information from them he's
like this is the life we've chosen for
ourselves I said okay all right no need
to get dramatic about it now I
love this guy I love him I Googled him a
few years ago and and he died he died
about 10 years ago I was sorry to see
but he was a genuinely good guy yeah so
to that point um what is the role of sex
and
Espionage well the written rule and
there's the written rule and the
unwritten
rule the written rule is verboten you
never ever sleep with an agent or with a
Target the unwritten rule is when you
sleep with the agent or the target you
have to report it to headquarters
and then they make a determination as to
whether or not you can continue to sleep
with
them um you we had one guy when I was
when I was the deputy director's
executive assistant you know I had
access to literally every every Cable in
the world that the CIA was producing so
I was read into every compartment and
there was one of our guys out there
young guy good-look
go-getter and he's like uh
I was targeting this woman and she has
access to the prime minister's office
and one thing led to the other
and so it's like well what what do we do
so we said are are you into her or was
it just one of these things where you
had too much to drink he goes I'm I'm
into her and I think she's into me and
we were like okay you can continue to
see her but she's no longer a Target
you're going to have to find somebody
else
he ended up marrying her wow yeah he had
to resign I mean if you're going to
marry a Brit or Australian or Canadian
okay you got to you got to report it
but most countries you have to offer
your resignation and then headquarters
decides whether to accept the
resignation or not and that country she
was from they accepted the
resignation that's so interesting to me
about kind of the lines blurring in the
situations right like cuz you're a human
right there's attraction you know yeah
but it goes back to the point about is
it a real relationship or is is it a
fake one well I'll tell you a funny
story when I was a brand new case
officer with zero
experience I was assigned to work with
this liaison officer who was the ugliest
woman I had ever met in my life it was
like it was like a
joke you know like somebody took pieces
of clay and as a joke you know made this
face
so I've just arrived I just met
her and the chief says well she was
really uh friendly to you in the meeting
I said I said oh yeah I said she
mentioned she has an interest in
American expressionist art and I
actually know a little bit about
American expressionism
child Hassam and you know the early 20th
late 19th century American
expressionists and he said
uh listen uh I want you to her and
I go
what I go you saw what she looks like he
goes yeah but you know this would be a
real feather in your cap I want you to
go ahead and
her and I go man I I'm
married and he goes yeah but it's it's
for the
country and I go
oh okay I'll do it I'll do it for the
country and he goes no you're not going
to do it for the country I'm kidding we
don't them and I go well how am I
supposed to know I've never done this
before he goes I can't believe you were
going to her did you see her
face I was like don't do that to me I
don't know any better
yet whatever it
takes that's
awesome um is there any
other either recruitments or pitches
that stand out from your time in Greece
that you can
share yeah there was one
so I was in a very dangerous
country active Al-Qaeda
presence very
dangerous and we got word that a lot of
alqa
Fighters were congregating at this one
coffee
shop so I let my beard grow out and it
they used to call me the Archbishop in
the embassy cuz it was
like this and while my hair was still
dark my beard was all
gray so I started going to this coffee
shop and not saying anything to anybody
I would sit with an Arabic newspaper and
just
read and these guys would come in
clearly
Al-Qaeda because if you're in this
country you speak in Arabic yeah you're
Al-Qaeda there's no reason for you to be
in this country otherwise
so I never said a word never made eye
contact nothing but I'm there every
single day having a cup of coffee
reading an Arabic
newspaper finally one of these guys as
they're walking past my table to go to
their table one of these guys nods at me
so I nod back at
him and then a couple days later they're
coming in again and he nods and I said
Salam alayum and he
says and he sits
down and then another week passes and I
said Salam he
says I said what is your
name mm I
said where you
from I speak with the Lebanese accent
cuz my instructor was
Lebanese nice to meet you
he goes and sits so now I know his name
so I can run a name Trace see exactly
who this guy is and he's he's a guy that
we want to get to
know so one day he came in by himself
and I said uh I said sit with me please
so he
sits and he said you live around here I
said yeah I live around the corner you
live around here he said yeah I said
what are you doing in this country
you're you're Egyptian he said ah I came
for
Jihad I said of course of course I said
I work for an NGO orphans we we take
care of Orphans oh good good refugees I
said yes yes it's a big problem yes yes
I said you came for Jihad he said yes
and I said you're not in Afghanistan he
said no I'm thinking it's time to go
home I been there for 5 years now I
think I'd like to go
home and uh we would have these kinds of
conversations
so it came time for the pitch we have a
security team set up like completely
surrounding us so I said to him yeah
mm I'm not really who I said I was I
don't work for an NGO I wasn't honest
with you and I want to apologize for
that he's like I said I'm
actually
American I said and more than
that I work for the
CIA and he's
like I said you're not running screaming
from the room he said I'm
listening I said okay
what I want from you
is ABC d and
e and I said I will make you rich Beyond
Your Wildest
Dreams he said okay I said we can never
meet here again I said I'm going to get
us an apartment and we'll meet at the
apartment so we
did and then it came time for me to
leave so I turned him over to my
placement and I said Mahmud I got to ask
you you were a True
Believer why did you agree to let me
recruit you and he said because I was
here for 5 years and you were the only
person who ever asked me about my
family that was
it
yeah they didn't care about him he was
just a body with a gun
they didn't care otherwise
damn um what about what about the one
where you dressed up as a college kid
yeah that was so much fun oh my God that
was the one that I enjoyed the
most like I say I was younger back then
my hair had no gray in it I was
thin and uh we got word that the
intelligence service station chief of an
enemy
country was coming for his new
assignment and
uh how do you get to him right I mean
he's not going to be at the cocktail
party sipping a
martini so
uh I had a mentor at the CIA by the name
of gust
avatus gust is famous Charlie Wilson's
War I mean books have been written about
gust he was like a father figure to
me he was very
controversial inside and outside the
agency killed a lot of Russians a
lot Metals
promotions couldn't get along with
anybody everybody hated gust and gust
hated everybody but he was a sweetheart
deep down you just had to know how
to deal with him like one time we were
working in the 17 November task force
together and I mentioned offhandedly
that 17 November's second victim the
chief of the helenic National Police his
name was malos that malos was a torturer
during the Hun and Gus grabbed me by the
lapels and slammed me up against the
wall and he goes myos was my friend and
I said you better get your hands
off of me old man or I'm going to make
you
sorry and he finally let me go and I go
what the wrong with with you I
said malos was a torturer I'm sorry if
he was your friend I'm sorry he got shot
in the head but he was a torturer and
keep your hands to yourself next time
and afterwards he's like I really
respect you for the way you
reacted so anyway we were
friends so I called gust and I said gust
I got a little pickle here I said this
station Chief is coming and we don't
have a way to get to him and uh how do
you think I should play this because I I
want to cold pitch him even if it just
means frightening him so that he goes
underground so Gus said let me tell you
something I did back in the day in the
50s so I wish I could take credit for
this but this was not my original idea
but it worked like a
charm so on Gus's
suggestion I got a book bag and filled
it with books so it was heavy and
bulky I found the guy's address which
was not hard and I found his car which
had a diplomatic license plate on it so
I went up to the car and with my book
bag I broke off the side view mirror and
then I picked up the mirror I went to
the next door neighbor's
house a Greek lady and I said is that
your your car over there I just broke
the mirror off no no she says it belongs
to the guy next door I don't know who he
is is so I did that for cover
reasons so I go next door knock on the
door the guy answers and I start
speaking to him in
Greek and I knew he didn't speak Greek
and so he says in English he says no no
I don't speak Greek and I said oh I'm
sorry I said in English uh I said you
speak English I I'm sorry I I was
walking down the street and I I've got
my books here and and I I accidentally
hit your mirror and I broke it off and
the lady next door told me that it was
your car and I wanted to come and say I
was sorry excuse me sorry and and I want
to pay for it and he's like
ah damn it now I have to take it into
the shop I said I'm so sorry it's it's
totally my fault I was just being
clumsy
and I'm standing there at the door he's
inside I'm outside but in in Arab
culture an Arab can never turn down a
request for Hospitality so I said to him
may I trouble you for a glass of water
and he's
like wait here he says so he goes into
the kitchen to get a glass of water in
the meantime his little daughter looked
to be four years old is playing on the
floor so I let myself in and I get on my
knees and I say to her in Arabic sh SMI
sh M what is your name and she says oh
my name is whatever and I said uh how
old are you I'm for and I said what are
you playing in Arabic this is all in
Arabic so he comes back in and he's
standing there listening to this which
of course I did on
purpose and he says to
me what exactly do you
want so I stood up and I said listen I'm
not going to waste your time you're a
professional I'm a
professional this is my card with my
real name I'm from the CIA in Washington
your guy is going down he's going to die
you can die with him or you can be on
the side of the good guys and you have
until 10:00 tomorrow morning to make
that
decision and I walked out and as I
walked out I said I'll be sitting next
to my phone that's my direct
line so I went back every everybody's
like how'd it go I said I don't know
we'll
see so we're all sitting there looking
at our watches the next
morning right at 10:00 the phone
rings and he says what do you
propose I said meet me in the lobby of
the Hilton hotel in 2 hours and come
alone and come
unarmed so we had six security guys we
were at CIA people were at every
table around there's a little cafe in
the lobby and I wanted it to be in as
public a place as possible so that if
you know all hell were to break
loose I might have a a little bit of
safety safety in numbers safety in the
you know public environment cops walking
around security
guards
so the guy uh
uh made a
demand I made a counter
offer
and finally I said to him look you're
you're not in a position of strength to
negotiate
here I'm I'm telling you what it is that
you're going to
do I'm not here to offer you
know
riches we can get to that conversation
at some point in the future but right
now you have to prove your bonafides to
me and this is what you're going to
do at the end of the day he did
literally everything that we wanted him
to do we did make him
Rich he
survived he's a successful businessman
now thanks to your taxpayer
dollars and we were able to shut down
any threat that that Embassy would have
posed and it would have posed a real
threat to
Americans wow yeah that was a good one
that's a ballsy pitch man he was scared
shitless and like I say he was a
professional so he knew that every one
of these white guys that's sitting at
every table around him is armed to the
teeth and is working with me
yeah it's like you said before when when
the guy on the motorcycle when you put
the gun on his face and he said I'm not
afraid of your gun it's the same concept
you walk into his house and
start playing with his daughter yeah he
says like what kind of person is just
going to walk in here and do that the
psychopath just came into my house and
now knows my child wow yeah that's a
good one man that is a good one I was
proud of that one yeah yeah I got
promoted for
that promoted to uh GS
13 or 14 I don't remember anymore and
those are that's like the inter agency
ranking system right okay what would
that be the equivalent of in the
military uh Lieutenant
Colonel nice
mhm yeah that's a good one so last thing
on the Greece
timeline the second assassination
attempt this is right after you left
Greece right yeah what's this story
you know out of all the things that I
ever did at the agency I think this is
the one thing that I'm the most proud of
it wasn't the abua operation although I
was proud of abua I'm ashamed for our
country as to what ended up happening
after abuaba and we'll get into that in
detail yeah
but but the second assassination attempt
I was so proud of myself because by then
I was a seasoned case officer I knew
exactly what I was doing and I was good
at it how many years had you been
working as a case officer at this time
by then this is what 2000
200 so two years and
one uh yeah three
years doing high-risk stuff like I
didn't become a case officer and then go
to London or Rome right I went into the
mouth of the Beast with 17 November so I
get a cable from a buddy of mine who's
the chief of a station in the Middle
East and he said buddy he goes I got a
case we're working on here it's a double
agent and it's just too dangerous for me
or for any of my people to handle we
need somebody who doesn't live here you
think he'd like to do it I said heck
yeah I was divorced I had nothing to
lose could use the overtime you know was
looking to buy a house why
not so I fly out there and and all these
guys are my friends right we were all in
training together or in Arabic together
or whatever we're all
friends so in fact this is the guy that
introduced me to my second wife yeah
so I go so what what gives and he says
well we recruited this
guy
and he works for an American defense
contractor as an engineer
but he doesn't know that we know that
he's actually a double
agent
for one of our greatest enemies in the
world W I think they wouldn't let me say
the country in the
book one of our most serious enemies in
the world so he thinks he's working for
us but we know that the bad guys have
tasked him him with identifying the
station
chief for an
assassination so he said can you pretend
to be
me I said
sure I said we're going to have to like
be really serious about security but
yeah I can do
this so he said Remember the guy has no
idea that we know that he's a double I
had never worked a double agent case
before I had only learned about double
agent cases in training like oh this is
very rare but in case this happens you
know here's what you do and you know all
that
so so he triggers a meeting or the the
original Handler triggers the meeting
and
um the guy comes and I said hi my name's
Nick you wanted to meet the chief you
met him hi nice to meet you Nick
am I going to be dealing with you from
now on I said yes we we believe that
you're important enough that uh that
I'll handle you directly and he's like
okay that's what I that's what I wanted
and I said okay well in this in this
introductory meeting let's just go over
the basic stuff we'll go over security
and surveillance surveillance detection
and a Communications uh uh
strategy so I
had what he didn't know was at the time
called a triband cell phone cell phones
were still very new and this triband
cell phone um it was a it was a local
number in that country but it would ring
no matter where I was in the
world revolutionary idea at the time you
didn't have to put in 20 digits it was
just a local number so he thought that I
was there all the time in fact I'm in
Washington uh but if he needed me the
phone would ring
so I said here's my number so you have
my direct number call me if you need
anything if you need to meet you need to
trigger a meeting we'll come up with a
plan in the meantime let's do this on
such and such a date at such and such a
hotel and what I want you to do is plan
out your surveillance detection routes
make sure that they're very
sophisticated and I want you to go rent
a post office box so in the event of an
emergency where we can't reach each
other by phone
you can send a message to the post
office box I'll go retrieve it and I'll
know where the next meeting should be
held okay
so we shake hands he shakes hands with
the outgoing guy great now he's dealing
with the station
Chief instead of doing a surveillance
detection R route he drove directly to
the enemy Embassy
directly now if he had done a
surveillance detection route he may have
seen that we had four cars with eight
officers on him never noticed a thing
then they reported back to their
Capital he's in with the chief he did it
he's in with the
chief so we're able to
track their
Communications so I go back out a month
later he rented the the post office box
then I go back out a month after that
and he did this thing for me and he did
that thing for me and we're establishing
a rapport so I do this for like six or
eight
months
and then I get a call from my buddy
who's the actual Chief and he said
listen we're going to have to kill this
operation I said what why it's going
well he said no um they just gave him
orders to kill you in the next meeting
I said come on man I said he's afraid of
his own shadow he's not going to he's
not going to kill me and he said we we
have to we have to kill the operation
and I said no no rash decisions let's do
a conference call so I got all the
headquarters Mucky mucks together and
the station guys and I said listen
listen let's do the next meeting at the
Marriott because every Marriott
everywhere in the world is exactly the
same you come in the door and the
bathroom is right there on your right so
we get two adjoining rooms that are
connected by a door I'll be in the
bathroom and when he knocks on the door
I'll say come in I'll have it propped
open with the lock the secure lock you
know how they do he comes in I grab him
you guys and liaison come in from the
other room and we get
him they're like uh it's risky I said
come on guys what do we do for a living
here this guy's a Bonafide terrorist
he's ordered to kill me then he's going
to kill you and he's going to kill you
next and he's going to kill you after
that we going to stop these guys or
not okay let's do
it
so I get to the
hotel and
and I'm waiting and I got to the hotel
hours early hours which was the plan and
we've got our guys in the lobby and one
of them calls me from the lobby and he
said bad news he goes the bad guys are
here in the lobby and they've got at
least three
teams I said I didn't expect
that the idea being if he chickens out
and doesn't shoot me they're going to
shoot me as I'm trying to
escape it's like dog G it we didn't
consider that we didn't think they'd
have the guts to do it we we just
thought that they wanted a degree of
separation I said okay so we can't use
the front
door so we have to use the back
door and they're like okay he's he's
coming in right now and just as he's
coming in he calls me and I never would
tell him directly what room were in I
would say come up to the fourth floor or
come up to the fifth floor and then he
would come up to the fifth floor and I'd
say I'm in room 211 or
8:15 meet me in 5 minutes and then I
would take the elevator and he would
take the stairs so that way he didn't
drag surveillance with him and then they
try to kill
me so he calls me he said I'm here I
said come up to the to the eighth floor
it was the top floor come up to the
eighth
floor and
um and he goes okay
so he comes up to the eighth floor and I
go walk with me over to the
stairs so we walk over the
stairs and we go into the stairwell and
I said let's go up to the roof he's like
what I said let's go up to the
roof he goes
I don't I don't think I want to go up to
the roof I said yeah come on let's
go he said I'm uncomfortable going up to
the
roof and I said why you think I'm going
to throw you off the
roof come on let's go we'll talk up
there it's a nice
day he goes I don't want to go to the
roof I said get up on the
roof he said you're scaring me I said
and you're pissing me off get up on on
the
roof I don't think I like this I don't
like it I don't like it I go what's your
problem I thought we're friends you told
me last time you were my
brother what do you think I'm going to
do to you up
there I I don't want to I don't want to
go up there I go get up on the
roof so one step at a time he gets up to
the
roof I said now stay here for 5 minutes
and meet me in room 5:15
and I said you worry me
sometimes so I go back
down five minutes later he knocks on
5:15 I said come in he comes in I come
out of the bathroom I tackle him our
liaison partners and our security guys
bust in from the side room I have him
pinned
down and he's like Allah abbar Allah
abbar and he says I'll kill you
and I said I said do you
think I'm so
stupid that I didn't know you came here
to kill me
tonight do you think I'm so
unprofessional that I don't know that
you're a double
agent I said you're the stupid
one you're the stupid one because your
life is over now over
allahar he kept saying I saide keep
telling your yourself that see how far
that gets you but remember the bad guys
are in the lobby and they're looking at
their
watches like where is he we haven't
heard
anything
So the plan we had come up with was our
liaison liazon Partners give him a shot
of
demoral and it knocks him out well the
truth is people die in hotels every
single day so we put him on a gurnie we
covered him up like a dead body we took
him out the back and put him in the
ambulance and we drove in an ambulance
from the back door the cargo whatever
the garbage door to their intelligence
Service headquarters and when he came to
he was tied to a
chair so I said
now it's my turn you
idiot I said your life is
over
so
now I'm going to ask you a question
that's going to determine how the rest
of your life is going to be
spent we know who you are we know who
you work for and we know that you're in
charge of the arms
cash so I want to know where are the
weapons he's like F you I will
never tell you
it's like that's the wrong
answer he would never tell us
so we all huddled they put him in a cell
and we all huddled together and I said
listen I have an idea we know where he
lives and we know that he has he has a
safe in the hotel he he had referenced
the safe a couple times I said I wonder
if the arms are in the safe and they
were like okay but how do we get into
the hotel uh get into the house I said
let's just just break in and they were
like no can't do it he's got a live-in
Filipino made can't do it and I said
okay let's declare a an environmental
emergency a gas leak we'll say there's a
gas leak and then we'll Evacuate the
neighborhood he lived in a culde saacs
there were like Eight
houses and they're like no can't do it
we don't have underground gas lines here
we use
propane I said oh my God okay okay get a
freaking 18wheeler of propane we'll
spill the pro propane on the street and
then we'll declare an
emergency they're like that we could do
so this 18-wheeler comes to the house
we're all at the house by then there's
this giant wheel and I go like this with
the Giant Wheel and I spill all this
propane on the ground and then we call
115 which is their version of 911 and we
said oh there's a big propane spill we
need the fire department so the fire
department comes and they evacuate all
the houses and then we break into his
house and the safe is like this big that
was it like it's not big enough for
anything like the safe in my bedroom is
bigger than this this is more like a
strong box than a safe so we had the
locks and pick guy and he cracks
it and uh all it has in it is a a slip
of paper it was a a map like a kids map
and it had an X he had written this X on
the map and I go what are the chances
that this is the weapons cash and they
were like well this is all we have so
let's go for it so we all got in these
jeeps and we followed the map
to a town that was about an hour south
and then past the town we went out into
the
um the
desert
and we're following the map you know 100
Paces and 50 paces and 30 paces and
there is an abandoned
bunker with all the weapons and it
wasn't just weapons it was mines and
grenades and rocket launchers
and that group no longer
exists we put the entire group out of
business that
night yeah and then years later I ran
into the
chief and I go whatever happened to that
guy and he said oh dude he says life
without parole means life without
parole yeah
yep oh that's awesome that's awesome I
was so proud of that
one so proud CU you know so much of what
we did at the CIA was just nonsense work
it was spinning your wheels coming up
with stupid ideas that would never work
wasting time and money on agents that
could never be
recruited you know bad analysis bad
tradecraft getting caught in
surveillance so when you when you get a
victory every once in a while it's it's
good yeah it's a nice W
yeah um so let's take a quick break and
then when we come back we'll get to 911
sounds good two planes just hit both
towers of the World Trade Center I think
we're under
attack I need $10 million weapons
ammunition when he asked you to hold his
hand is there some sort of empathy in
war that comes out that nobody discusses
great
question I just got approached and asked
if I wanted to be certified in these
enhanced interrogation techniques 92
other tapes that are said to show Abu
zubeda and abdal nashir being
waterboarded were destroyed and he got
up from his desk and he whispered in my
ear kill them
all what's up guys thank you so much for
taking the time to watch the interview
um as you could probably tell this is a
brand new channel so if you got anything
out of this at all
please like the video leave me a comment
tell me what you thought tell me who
you'd like to see on the show um I see
every like I read every comment and I
appreciate all of it especially in the
beginning because as you know that kind
of support goes a long way on these
platforms so most importantly I have
some awesome guests coming up in the
future for interviews um so please
subscribe to the channel so you don't
miss any of them but again thank you for
your time appreciate the support and
hope to see against soon